[Music]
all right you get up after a long party
with your friends
the sun's already high up in the sky you
take a look at the clock
oh well it's noon the store's already
closed
or at least that's a little story you
like to tell yourself
when you don't feel like going out for
groceries
well time for a late late breakfast you
open the fridge
oh no what's that weird smell is that
cheese in a plastic bag it's just about
the only thing left in your fridge
and the store is almost four blocks away
so
nothing else to do but take a chance
mold is often a sign your food is
spoiled
except for when it comes to cheese if
possible
just remove the moldy parts so you can
eat the rest
if by accident you ended up eating some
of that mold
don't worry most cheese types already
contain
some kind of mold it's an important part
of the cheese making process
now there are a few exceptions such as
dark black gray mold
if you see that stuff on soft cheeses
you're gonna have to chuck it out and
hit the store
or maybe just maybe you have a sardinian
roommate whose grandma just sent him his
island specialty
rotten cheese aka maggot cheese
the sardinian cheese makers leave their
cheese to go
really really bad and voila
you've got yourself a famous delicacy
with a tongue
burning taste it's actually illegal in
some countries
so before going for that suspicious
cheese chunk in your fridge
check if anything's moving around inside
if you're preparing an omelet and don't
have enough ingredients to spice it up
with
take eggshells if they're organic boil
them
and then bake them at 400 degrees when
they get crispy
grind them into a powder and toss some
on your omelet
eggshells are a pretty good and cheap
source of calcium
so it's worth a shot
if things get hairy grab your tent
blanket and lamp
and run to the woods at least there
you'll have an endless supply of tree
bark
so you won't have to worry about going
hungry yup our ancestors were eating
bark ever since the beginning of time
cinnamon barks among the most popular
now wouldn't it be great if you didn't
have to do the dishes after every meal
yes i'm talking about plates and cutlery
you could eat
right after using them it's not a new
concept
there are edible plates like tortilla
shells ice cream cones
and one indian company has been making
edible cutlery from
rice wheat flour and millet for over 10
years
now if they could just invent an edible
cake tin
ah remember those good old days when you
were younger
and no one gave you strange looks for
eating chalk
it happened to my friend yeah well
in his purest form chalk is just calcium
carbonate
you won't get any special health
benefits from eating it
but it's a non-toxic and natural
substance
that won't do any harm to your body
people who eat it usually have
pica a condition that makes people eat
non-nutritional items
paper is also one of the things people
with this condition crave
one of the reasons for that could be
that paper is fibrous
and they are possibly experiencing a
lack of fiber
paper is not nutritious at all plus it's
chemically treated
so better stay away
it's even not that unusual to eat clay
in some parts of the world
people use it to deal with a zinc
deficiency
of course it has to be a special clay
that's purified and suitable for
consumption
dirt back to those good old days
spending time in the garden making
pretend cakes out of mud
not that dirt should be on your everyday
menu but
if you can find yourself a nutrition
expert you might just find that eating a
little bit of the right dirt
isn't all that bad some clays and muds
have tons of minerals in them
if they're made specially with no
chemicals or anything
dandelions are one of the healthiest
edible things you can find
you got vitamins iron antioxidants
yup highly nutritious and better yet you
can find them
literally everywhere cactus
definitely looks like a plant you should
avoid but
if you clean it and prepare it properly
you can add it to desserts salads
soups breads drinks you name it it
tastes like
well kind of gooey to be honest remember
to double check you've got all the spiky
bits off
[Music]
have you ever taken a walk looked up at
the sky noticed some birds nests and
thought
ooh that could be my dinner for tonight
not quite yeah but edible nests
are a hit in several countries they're
nutritious
have a unique taste and yes are made out
of the saliva of a very specific kind of
bird
they're extremely dangerous to harvest
and hard to prepare
so if you're into that sort of thing
don't forget to hit up the atm
beforehand
it can sell up to four thousand dollars
a pound
one more expensive item get ready for
consumption
gold not that you can eat your mom's
necklace if you're in the mood for a
shiny afternoon snack
but gold flakes or leaves are often used
to decorate
food especially when it comes to
desserts
gold is actually inert so it doesn't
cause any chemical reaction in your body
and can pass straight through your
digestive system
without being absorbed i was gonna make
a crack here about having a gold rush
but i won't some cultures used to boil
tenderize and chew leather when they
were out of food
well even if you wanted to try it you
can't
today's leather is chemically treated so
it's pretty much a no-go
what would you do if you came across a
tarantula if it's in cambodia
at a tarantula stall you eat it it's a
classic cambodian deep fried snack
they say the taste of tarantula is
similar to crab
so um yeah let me know if it's true
tarantulas certainly have more meat than
grasshoppers who also
ended up on the menu in asia and parts
of the americas
both them and crickets are rich in
protein and extremely edible
all these little guys need to be
expertly raised and prepared
you just can't walk around picking up
random insects and
eating them by the way they say
grasshoppers taste like sardines
curious just a regular afternoon
you're sitting on the couch in front of
the tv wondering
which snack perfectly fits into your bin
session
okay some chocolate chip cookies could
do the trick
but how about wasp crackers yup biscuits
filled with wasps
next big thing these rice cracker cookie
things
with added wasp come from japan the
wasps are bred specially
just for these cookies they don't just
go around
town with a net
another unusual thing from japan is fogu
blowfish
you need a lot of professional training
to prepare this thing
properly since it's full of toxic poison
a good serving could cost you up to 120
bucks
once the licensed chef separates the
poisonous parts
they get dumped into a metal container
that gets locked with a padlock
it then gets taken to a certified fish
market to be burned
it's too poisonous to throw in the
regular trash
imagine your job is collecting ant eggs
and you get paid per pound how long
would it take to gather up enough
well if you move to laos you might find
out
they have one of the most unusual soups
around
white ant egg soup the taste kind of
reminds people of shrimp
so it could be worth trying or you could
just have shrimp soup
just saying century eggs are something
you can find in china
and no sorry people they're not
thousands hundreds or even
tens of years old it usually takes just
a couple of months to prepare them but
how they do it is
pretty interesting they're immersed in
clay or mud
this technique is something that people
in china have been doing for centuries
it preserves all the great benefits of
eggs
so what happens inside the egg well
basically
ammonia and sulfur build up in the yolk
as well as some strange snowflake like
patterns
and amber color on the outside of the
egg apparently it has a pretty strong
ammonia
smell oh the beauty of rotten smelling
foods